# Local Demographic Changes and US Presidential Voting, 2012 to 2016: A Replication
#### Debora Gonzalez

This project is a replication exercise of "[Local demographic changes and US presidential voting, 2012 to 2016](https://www-pnas-org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/content/pnas/116/50/25023.full.pdf)" by Seth Hill, Daniel Hopkins, and Gregory Huber (2019) conducted as my final project for GOV1006 at Harvard University. The project includes the original data and code kindly shared by Dan Hopkins and his colleages on [Harvard Dataverse](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/J5GCZQ).

### Abstract
Hill, Hopkins, and Huber (2019) argue that demographic changes are not associated with increased Republican vote share at the precinct level between 2012 and 2016. I succesfully replicated Hill, Hopkins and Huber’s results. A robustness test using a subset analysis focusing on the state of FL indicates, despite minor state-specific deviance and poor statistical significance due to reduced sample size, that the authors' overall findings are valid. Another test focusing on the effect of any individual state on the overall outcome was also found to support the original paper's robustness. In addition, I constructed a fixed effects model by state, which further confirmed original findings even under fixed effects assumptions. In a twist of analysis, I constructed a new model analyzing the association between Republican vote share and economic indicators while controlling for change in percent Hispanic. The latter models indicate a stronger relationship between unemployment proportion change and GOP vote share, which suggests an opportunity for further research with alternative theoretical pathways involving economic indicators. 